# CZECH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY IN PRAGUE

> ***MINUTES***

***from the meeting of the Scientific Council of the CTU on 24 May 2022,
held in***

> ***the Congress Hall of Masaryk College, Thákurova 1, Prague 6***
>
> **[Presence of CoR members:]{.underline} (according to the attendance
> list) Internal members**
>
> **External members**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  1\. Dolejší Vít, prof. RNDr., Ph.D., DSc.               excused
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------
  2\. Drábová Dana, Ing., PhD. , dr. h. c. mult.          

  3\. Gärtner Zdeněk, Ing.                                excused

  4\. Herle Ivo, Univ.-Prof. Dr.-Ing. habil.              excused

  5\. Janíček Ladislav, doc. Ing., Ph.D., MBA, L.L.M.     excused

  6\. Kasl Jan, Ing. arch.                                excused

  7\. Kratochvíl Jan, prof. RNDr., CSc.                   

  8\. Kraus František J. , Dr., Dr. Sc. Wiss Adjunct      excused

  9\. Noskievič Petr, prof. Ing., CSc.                    
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  10.Penhaker Marek, prof. Ing., Ph.D.              excused
  ------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  11.Pospíšil Stanislav, prof. Ing., Ph.D., FEng.   

  12.Provazník Ivo, prof. Ing., Ph. D.              

  13.Řasa Jaroslav, Ing.                            

  14.Švadlenka Libor, doc. Ing., Ph. D.             excused

  15.Vitková Ľubica, prof. Ing. arch., Ph.D.        

  16.Vozňák Miroslav, prof. Ing., Ph.D.             excused

  17.Zemčík Pavel, prof. Dr. Ing.                   excused
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Extraordinary CoR members**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Blažek Vladimír, prof. Dr. Ing. , dr. h. c.        excused
  -------------------------------------------------- --------------------
  Dvořáková Vladimíra prof. PhDr. , CSc.             

  Hronová Stanislava prof. Ing. , CSc.               

  Jelínková Helena prof. Ing. , DrSc.                excused

  Kolísko Jiří doc. Ing. , Ph.D.                     excused

  Kratochvíl Bohumil prof. RNDr. , DSc.              

  Machan Jaroslav doc. Ing. , CSc.                   

  Pospíšil Martin doc. Dr. Ing. , Ph.D.              

  Šafařík Karel, prof. RNDr., CSc.                   

  Valášek Michael prof. Ing. , DrSc.                 excused
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Rectors Emeritus**

+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Havlíček Václav, prof. Ing., CSc.              |                     |
+================================================+=====================+
| Witzany Jiří, prof. Ing., DrSc., dr. h. c.     | > excused           |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| Zuna Petr, prof. Ing., D.Eng. h. c., FEng.     |                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+

> **[Program:]{.underline}**

1.  Review of the minutes of the CoR meeting of 19 April 2022

2.  Proposals for appointment as professor

3.  Proposal for the appointment of a Professor Emeritus

4.  Accreditation of study programmes

5.  Professional capacities of CTU

6.  Miscellaneous

> The meeting of the SC was opened by the Rector doc. RNDr. Vojtěch
> Petráček,
>
> CSc.
>
> The following persons were elected as Conveners for this meeting:
> prof. Ing.
>
> Tomáš Jirout, Ph.D.
>
> prof. Ing. Jan Macek, DrSc.

## ad 1/ Review of the minutes of the CoR meeting of 19 April 2022

> No comments were made on the minutes.

## ad 2/ Proposals for appointment as professor

> The Vice-Rector Prof. Zbyněk Škvor presented the proposals for
> appointment as
>
> professor to the CTU Board:
>
> (Background materials have been posted on INFOREK.)
>
> [Faculty of Mechanical Engineering]{.underline}

## doc. Ing. Jan Hošek, Ph.D.

> **major: structural and process engineering**
>
> Doc. Ing. Jan Hošek, Ph.D. presented to the Scientific Council his
> professional and scientific profile and plans of his further
> activities, answered questions in the discussion.
>
> Title of the professor\'s lecture:

## \"New types of measuring instruments\".

> Result of the secret ballot: 45 members of the CTU SC,
>
> present and entitled to vote: 31, affirmative: 30, negative: 0,
> invalid: 1. **Proposal for the appointment of Assoc. Ing. Jan Hošek,
> Ph.D. as professor in the field of Structural and Process Engineering
> was approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.**
>
> [Faculty of Information Technology]{.underline} **doc. RNDr. Pavel
> Surynek, Ph.D. field of study: computer science**
>
> Doc. RNDr. Pavel Surynek, Ph.D. presented to the Scientific Council
> his professional and scientific profile and plans for his further
> activities, answered questions in the discussion.
>
> Title of the professor\'s lecture:
>
> **\"**Compilation-based Techniques for Multi-Agent Path Finding **and
> its**
>
> Generalizations**\".**
>
> Result of the secret ballot: 45 members of the CTU SC,
>
> present and entitled to vote: 31, affirmative: 25, negative: 3,
> invalid: 3. **Proposal for the appointment of Assoc. RNDr. Pavel
> Surynek, Ph.D. as a professor of Computer Science was approved by the
> Scientific Council of CTU.**

## ad 3/ Proposal for the appointment of a professor emeritus

> The Vice-Rector, Prof. Zbyněk Škvor, presented the proposal for
> appointment as Emeritus Professor to the SC:
>
> (Background materials have been posted on INFOREK.)
>
> [Faculty of Nuclear and Physical Engineering]{.underline}

## prof. Ing. Jaroslav Král, CSc.

> **field of study: applied physics**
>
> Result of the secret ballot: 45 members of the CTU SC,
>
> present and entitled to vote: 31, affirmative: 29, negative: 0,
> invalid: 2. **Proposal for the appointment of Prof. Ing. Jaroslav
> Kral, CSc. as Emeritus Professor was approved by the Scientific
> Council of CTU.**

## ad 4/ Accreditation of study programmes

> The Vice-Rector, Prof. Zbyněk Škvor, informed the CTU Council about
> the
>
> materials submitted for the accreditation of study programmes.
>
> Accreditation intentions:
>
> Civil Engineering - Project Management (FSv, MSP, CZ)
>
> Civil Engineering - Water Management and Water Structures (FSv, MSP,
> CZ) Civil Engineering - Environment (FSv, MSP, CZ)
>
> Management and Economics in Construction (FSv, MSP, CZ)
>
> Result of the vote by acclamation: 45 members of the CTU SC,
>
> present and entitled to vote: 31, affirmative: 31, negative: 0,
> abstentions: 0. **The Scientific Council of CTU approved the submitted
> plans for accreditation of study programmes.**

## ad 5/ Departmental capacities of CTU

> The RVVI, as requested by Prof. Jurajda, has requested an analysis
> from all research institutions as to what percentage of their
> activities are devoted to the given D-FORD disciplines. The
> Vice-Rector Prof. Škvor informed the present members about the
> methodology used to determine the percentages. The resulting material
> was made available in advance to the CoR members for comments .

## ad 6/ Miscellaneous

-   Annual Activity Report 2021

> This point was commented by the Rector doc. Petráček, stating that the
> submitted AAR is well prepared and describes the development of the
> University well. It was based on the established concept and the
> requirements of the Ministry of Education and Science and was expanded
> with information related mainly to scientific research activities.
> Comments were made e.g. on the number of foreign postdocs, where 0. It
> was also said that few things for improvement were mentioned in the
> GA. The Rector promised that the comments would be taken on board and
> the Annual Report would be submitted to the MoE with the correct
> figures added.

## The Scientific Council discussed the Annual Activity Report for 2021.

-   The next regular meeting will be held on 21 June 2022 at 14.00 in
    the Large Meeting Room of the CTU Rector\'s Office on the 10th
    floor. In the morning, from 9.30 a.m., a ceremonial meeting of the
    Scientific Council will be held in the Bethlehem Chapel, where
    diplomas will be awarded to associate professors and PhD students.

> doc. RNDr. Vojtěch Petráček, CSc.
>
> Chairman of the Czech Technical University in Prague
