# CZECH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY IN PRAGUE

> ***MINUTES***
>
> ***from the meeting of the CTU Scientific Council held on 23 May 2023
> in the Large Meeting Room on the 10th floor of the CTU Rector\'s
> Office***
>
> **[Presence of CoR members:]{.underline} (according to the attendance
> list)**
>
> **Interní členové**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  1\. Čuba Václav, doc. Ing., Ph.D.                    
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------
  2\. Hanzálek Zdeněk, prof. Dr. Ing                   

  3\. Hájek Petr, prof. Ing., CSc.                     

  4\. Hlaváček Dalibor, doc. Ing. arch., Ph.D.         

  5\. Jex Igor, prof. Ing., DrSc.                      excused

  6\. Jiroušek Ondřej, prof. Ing., Ph.D.               

  7\. Jirout Tomáš, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                  excused

  8\. Jiřina Marcel, doc. RNDr. Ing., Ph.D.            

  9\. Kubátová Hana, prof. Ing., CSc.                  

  10.Lábus Ladislav, prof. Ing. arch., Hon. FAIA       

  11.Lupíšek Antonín, doc. Ing., Ph.D.                 excused

  12.Máca Jiří, prof. Ing., CSc.                       excused

  13.Macek Jan, prof. Ing., DrSc.                      

  14.Matas Jiří, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                     

  15.Navrátil Leoš, prof. MUDr., CSc.                  excused

  16.Páta Petr, prof. Mgr., Ph.D.                      

  17.Petráček Vojtěch, doc. RNDr., CSc.                

  18.Přibyl Ondřej, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                  excused

  19.Ripka Pavel, prof. Ing., CSc.                     

  20.Rosina Jozef, prof. MUDr., Ph.D., MBA             

  21.Roubík Karel, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                   

  22.Svítek Miroslav, prof. Dr. Ing., dr. h. c.        excused

  23.Škvor Zbyněk, prof. Ing., CSc.                    

  24.Španiel Miroslav, doc. Ing., CSc.                 

  25.Štekl Ivan, doc. Ing., CSc.                       

  26.Tvrdík Pavel, prof. Ing., CSc.                    

  27.Wald František, prof. Ing., CSc.                  

  28.Zavřel Zdeněk, prof. Ing. arch.                   
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **External members**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  1\. Dolejší Vít, prof. RNDr., Ph.D., DSc.            excused
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------
  2\. Drábová Dana, Ing., PhD., dr. h. c. mult.        excused

  3\. Gärtner Zdeněk, Ing.                             

  4\. Herle Ivo, Univ.-Prof. Dr.-Ing. habil.           excused

  5\. Janíček Ladislav, doc. Ing., Ph.D., MBA, L.L.M.  

  6\. Kasl Jan, Ing. arch.                             excused
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 7\. Kratochvíl Jan, prof. RNDr., CSc.        |                       |
+==============================================+=======================+
| 8\. Kraus František J., Dr., Dr. Sc. Wiss    |                       |
| Adjunkt                                      |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 9\. Noskievič Petr, prof. Ing., CSc.         |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 10.Penhaker Marek, prof. Ing., Ph.D.         |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 11.Pospíšil Stanislav, prof. Ing., Ph.D.,    |                       |
| FEng.                                        |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 12.Provazník Valentine, prof. Ing., Ph.D.    |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 13.Řasa Jaroslav, Ing.                       |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 14.Švadlenka Libor, doc. Ing., Ph.D.         |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 15.Vitková Ľubica, prof. Ing. arch., Ph.D.   |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 16.Vozňák Miroslav, prof. Ing., Ph.D.        |                       |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+
| 17.Zemčík Pavel, prof. Dr. Ing.              | > excused             |
+----------------------------------------------+-----------------------+

> **Extraordinary CoR members**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Blažek Vladimír, prof. Dr. Ing., dr. h. c.       
  ------------------------------------------------ ----------------------
  Dvořáková Vladimíra prof. PhDr., CSc.            

  Hronová Stanislava prof. Ing., CSc.              

  Jelínková Helena prof. Ing., DrSc.               

  Kolísko Jiří prof. Ing., Ph.D.                   excused

  Kratochvíl Bohumil prof. RNDr., DSc.             

  Machan Jaroslav doc. Ing., CSc.                  

  Pospíšil Martin prof. Dr. Ing., Ph.D.            excused

  Šafařík Karel, prof. RNDr., CSc.                 

  Valášek Michael prof. Ing., DrSc.                excused
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Rectors Emeritus**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Havlíček Václav, prof. Ing., CSc.                 excused
  ------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  Witzany Jiří, prof. Ing., DrSc., dr. h. c.        excused

  Zuna Petr, prof. Ing., D.Eng. h. c., FEng.        
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **[Program:]{.underline}**

1)  Review of the minutes of the CTU SC meeting of 18 April 2023

2)  Proposals for appointment as professor

3)  Proposal for the appointment of a professor emeritus

4)  Concepts of study programmes

5)  Accreditation of habilitation and appointment procedures

6)  Miscellaneous

The meeting of the SC was opened by the Rector doc. RNDr. Vojtěch
Petráček, CSc. Doc. RNDr. Ing. Marcel Jiřina, Ph.D.

> Prof. Ing. Prof. Karel Roubík, Ph.D.
>
> **ad 1/ Review of the minutes of the CoR meeting of 18 April 2023**

No comments were made on the minutes.

> **ad 2/ Proposals for appointment as professor**

The Vice-Rector, Prof. Zbyněk Škvor, presented the proposals for
appointment as

professor to the CTU Board:

(The supporting materials were placed on INFOREK.)

> [Faculty of Electrical Engineering]{.underline} **doc. Ing. Zdeněk
> Bečvář, Ph.D. Doctor of Philosophy.**

Doc. Ing. Zdeněk Bečvář, Ph.D. presented to the Scientific Council his
professional and scientific profile and plans of his further activities,
answered questions in the discussion.

> Title of the professor\'s lecture: **„Dynamic resource management in
> mobile networks".**

Result of the secret ballot: 45 members of the CTU SC, 32 present, 31
positive, 0 negative, 1 invalid.

> **Proposal for the appointment of Assoc. Ing. Zdeněk Bečvář, Ph.D. as
> professor in the field of Telecommunication Technology was approved by
> the Scientific Council of CTU.**
>
> [Faculty of Architecture]{.underline}
>
> **doc. Ing. arch. Pavla Melková, Ph.D.**
>
> **Doctor of Architecture**

Doc. Ing. arch. Pavla Melková a, Ph.D. presented to the scientific
council her professional and scientific profile and plans for her
further activities, answered questions in the discussion.

Title of the professor\'s lecture:

> \"**The Role of Architecture in Contemporary Society**\". Result of
> secret ballot,

32 present and eligible to vote, 26 positive, 1 negative, 5 invalid.

1\. Ing. arch. Pavla Melková, Ph.D. as Professor of Architecture was
approved by the

Scientific Council of the CTU.

> **ad 3/ Proposal for the appointment of a professor emeritus**

The Rector of doc. Vojtěch Petráček presented the proposal for the
appointment of a professor emeritus to the Supervisory Board. The
proposal was supplemented by doc. Dalibor Hlaváček, Dean of the Faculty
of Architecture:

(Supporting materials were posted on INFOREK.)

[Faculty of Architecture]{.underline}

> **prof. Ing. arch. Matúš Dulla, DrSc.**
>
> **major: History of Architecture and Preservation of Monuments**

Result of the secret ballot: 45 members of the CTU SC,

32 present and eligible to vote, 32 affirmative, 0 negative, 0 invalid.

> **Proposal to appoint Prof. Ing. arch. Matúš Dulla, DrSc. as Professor
> Emeritus of the**
>
> **CTU in Prague was approved by the Scientific Council of the CTU.**
>
> **ad 4/ Concepts of study programmes**

Prof. Zbyněk Škvor informed the CTU Council about the draft concept of
the study

programme

\- Advanced Masters in Structural Analysis of Monuments and Historical
Constructions (FSv, MPS, EN)

(Background materials were placed on INFOREK.)

Result of the vote by acclamation:

45 members of the CTU SC,

31 present and eligible to vote, 31 in favour, 31 in favour, 0 in
favour, 0 abstentions.

> **The concept of the Advanced Masters in Structural Analysis of
> Monuments and Historical Constructions (FSv, MPS, EN) was approved by
> the Scientific Council of CTU.**
>
> **ad 5/ Accreditation of Habilitation and Appointment Procedures**

Prof. Zbyněk Škvor, Vice-Rector, informed the CTU Board about the
proposals for submission of applications for accreditation of
habilitation and appointment procedures. Discussed by the HEC without
comments.

-   Engineering Informatics in Transport and Communications (FD)

-   Transport Systems and Engineering (FD)

-   Applied Physics (FEL)

-   Bioengineering (FEL)

-   Electrical Power Engineering (FEL)

-   Electronics (FEL)

-   Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence (FEL)

-   Cybernetics and Robotics (FEL)

-   Measurement Technology (FEL)

-   Radioelectronics (FEL)

-   Telecommunications Engineering (FEL)

(Background materials have been posted on INFOREK.)

Result of the vote by acclamation:

45 members of the CTU SC,

31 present and eligible to vote, 31 in favour, 31 in favour, 0 in
favour, 0 abstentions.

> **Proposals for submission of applications for accreditation of
> habilitation and appointment procedures**

-   **Engineering Informatics in Transport and Communications (FD)**

-   **Transport Systems and Technology (FD)**

-   **Applied Physics (FEL)**

-   **Bioengineering (FEL)**

-   **Electrical Power Engineering (FEL)**

-   **Electronics (FEL)**

-   **Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence (FEL)**

-   **Cybernetics and Robotics (FEL)**

-   **Measurement Technology (FEL)**

-   **Radioelectronics (FEL)**

-   **Telecommunications Engineering (FEL)**

> **were approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.**
>
> **ad 6/ Miscellaneous**

1.  **Request for extension of accreditation**

Prof. Škvor informed the CTU Vice-Chairman of the proposal to submit an
application for extension of accreditation for the completion of
existing students of academically oriented study programmes until 30
September 2026. The proposal was commented by Prof. Vladimíra Dvořáková,
Director of the MÚVS:

-   Economics and Management (MÚVS, BSP, CZ)

-   Economics and Management (MÚVS, BSP, EN)

(Background materials have been posted on INFOREK.)

Result of the vote by acclamation:

45 members of the CTU SC,

31 present and eligible to vote, 31 in favour, 31 in favour, 0 in
favour, 0 abstentions.

> **Proposal to extend the accreditation for the completion of existing
> students of academically oriented study programmes until 30 September
> 2026**

-   **Economics and Management (MÚVS, BSP, CZ)**

-   **Economics and Management (MÚVS, BSP, EN)**

> **was approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.**

2.  **CTU Annual Report 2022**

Rector doc. Vojtěch Petráček informed the CTU Council about the Annual
Report on

CTU Activities for 2022.

(Background materials were posted on INFOREK.)

> **The Annual Report on the activities of the CTU in 2022 was discussed
> by the CTU Council.**

3.  Prof. Škvor informed about the preparation of the Rector\'s Order on
    the treatment of conflicts of interest of CTU and faculty managers
    in habilitation and appointment procedures.

4.  The next ordinary session of the CoR will be held on 20 June 2023,
    the formal session of the CoR will take place at 9.30 a.m. in
    Bethlehem Chapel.

> doc. RNDr. Vojtěch Petráček, CSc.
>
> Chairman of the Czech Technical University in Prague
