# CZECH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY IN PRAGUE

> ***MINUTES***
>
> ***from the meeting of the CTU Scientific Council held on 21 February
> 2023 in the Large Meeting Room on the 10th floor of the CTU Rector\'s
> Office***
>
> **[Presence of CoR members:]{.underline} (according to the attendance
> list) Internal members**
>
> **External members**

+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| 1\. Dolejší Vít, prof. RNDr., Ph.D., DSc.             |              |
+=======================================================+==============+
| 2\. Drábová Dana, Ing., PhD., dr. h. c. mult.         |              |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| 3\. Gärtner Zdeněk, Ing.                              |              |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| 4\. Herle Ivo, Univ.-Prof. Dr.-Ing. habil.            |              |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| 5\. Janíček Ladislav, doc. Ing., Ph.D., MBA, L.L.M.   | > excused    |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| 6\. Kasl Jan, Ing. arch.                              |              |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  7\. Kratochvíl Jan, prof. RNDr., CSc.                 
  ----------------------------------------------------- -----------------
  8\. Kraus František J., Dr., Dr. Sc. Wiss Adjunkt     

  9\. Noskievič Petr, prof. Ing., CSc.                  

  10.Penhaker Marek, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                  

  11.Pospíšil Stanislav, prof. Ing., Ph.D., FEng.       excused

  12.Provazník Valentine, prof. Ing., Ph.D.             

  13.Řasa Jaroslav, Ing.                                

  14.Švadlenka Libor, doc. Ing., Ph.D.                  excused

  15.Vitková Ľubica, prof. Ing. arch., Ph.D.            

  16.Vozňák Miroslav, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                 excused

  17.Zemčík Pavel, prof. Dr. Ing.                       
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Extraordinary CoR members**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Blažek Vladimír, prof. Dr. Ing., dr. h. c.        
  ------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  Dvořáková Vladimíra prof. PhDr., CSc.             

  Hronová Stanislava prof. Ing., CSc.               

  Jelínková Helena prof. Ing., DrSc.                

  Kolísko Jiří prof. Ing., Ph.D.                    omluven

  Kratochvíl Bohumil prof. RNDr., DSc.              omluven

  Machan Jaroslav doc. Ing., CSc.                   

  Pospíšil Martin prof. Dr. Ing., Ph.D.             omluven

  Šafařík Karel, prof. RNDr., CSc.                  

  Valášek Michael prof. Ing., DrSc.                 omluven
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Rectors Emeritus**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Havlíček Václav, prof. Ing., CSc.                 omluven
  ------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  Witzany Jiří, prof. Ing., DrSc., dr. h. c.        omluven

  Zuna Petr, prof. Ing., D.Eng. h. c., FEng.        
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **[Program:]{.underline}**

1.  **Review of the minutes of the CoR meeting of 17 January 2023**

2.  **Proposals for appointment as professor**

3.  **Report on the achievement of the objectives of the CTU strategic
    plan for 2022**

4.  **Ranking of CTU**

5.  **Miscellaneous**

> The meeting of the SC was opened by the Rector doc. RNDr. Vojtěch
> Petráček, CSc. Prof. Ing. Petr Hájek, CSc.
>
> Assoc. Ing. Prof. Antonín Lupíšek, Ph.D.
>
> **ad 1/ Review of the minutes of the CoR meeting of 17 January 2023**
>
> No comments were made on the minutes.
>
> **ad 2/ Proposals for appointment as professor**
>
> The Vice-Rector, Prof. Zbyněk Škvor, presented the proposals for
> appointment as
>
> professor to the CTU SC:
>
> (Background materials have been posted on INFOREK.)
>
> **Faculty of Civil Engineering**
>
> doc. Ing. Jan Pacina, Ph.D.
>
> Prof. Jan Pacina, Ph.D. in Cartography and Geodesy
>
> Doc. Ing. Jan Pacina, Ph.D. presented to the Scientific Council his
> professional and scientific profile and plans of his further
> activities, answered questions in the discussion.
>
> Title of the professor\'s lecture:
>
> \"Landscape reconstruction in the reservoir area through the eyes of a
> geoinformatician\".
>
> Result of secret ballot,
>
> 40 present and eligible to vote, 16 in favour, 21 in favour, 3
> invalid.
>
> Proposal for the appointment of Assoc. Ing. Jan Pacina, Ph.D. as
> professor in the field of Geodesy and Cartography was not approved by
> the Scientific Council of CTU.
>
> **Faculty of Electrical Engineering** doc. Ing. Karel Dušek, Ph.D.
> Doctor of Philosophy.
>
> Doc. Ing. Karel Dušek, Ph.D. presented to the Scientific Council his
> professional and scientific profile and plans of his further
> activities, answered questions in the discussion.
>
> Title of the professor\'s lecture:
>
> **\"Issues of solder joints for electronics\".**
>
> Result of secret ballot,
>
> 40 present and eligible to vote, 39 in favour, 1 in favour, 0 invalid.
>
> Proposal for the appointment of Assoc. No.: 1. Ing. Karel Dušek, Ph.D.
> as professor in the field of Materials and Technologies for Electrical
> Engineering was approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.
>
> **ad 3/ Report on the achievement of the objectives of the CTU
> strategic plan**
>
> The report on the achievement of the objectives of the CTU strategic
> plan and the use of funds from the programme to support the strategic
> management of HEIs for the year 2022 was discussed by the CTU SC.
>
> **ad 4/ Ranking of CTU**
>
> Caleb House, CTU External Relations Officer, presented the \"CTU and
> World University Rankings 2023\" and \"Citation data from CTU
> library\". Both presentations will be sent to all CoR members.
>
> **ad 5/ Miscellaneous**
>
> The next date of the regular CoR meeting is 21 March 2023.
>
> doc. RNDr. Vojtěch Petráček, CSc.
>
> Chairman of the CTU in Prague
