# CZECH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY IN PRAGUE

> ***MINUTES***
>
> ***from the meeting of the CTU Scientific Council held on 21 March
> 2023 in the Large Meeting Room on the 10th floor of the CTU Rector\'s
> Office***
>
> **[Presence of CoR members:]{.underline} (according to the attendance
> list)**
>
> **Internal members**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  1\. Čuba Václav, doc. Ing., Ph.D.                    excused
  ---------------------------------------------------- ------------------
  2\. Hanzálek Zdeněk, prof. Dr. Ing                   

  3\. Hájek Petr, prof. Ing., CSc.                     

  4\. Hlaváček Dalibor, doc. Ing. arch., Ph.D.         

  5\. Jex Igor, prof. Ing., DrSc.                      excused

  6\. Jiroušek Ondřej, prof. Ing., Ph.D.               excused

  7\. Jirout Tomáš, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                  

  8\. Jiřina Marcel, doc. RNDr. Ing., Ph.D.            

  9\. Kubátová Hana, prof. Ing., CSc.                  

  10.Lábus Ladislav, prof. Ing. arch., Hon. FAIA       

  11.Lupíšek Antonín, doc. Ing., Ph.D.                 excused

  12.Máca Jiří, prof. Ing., CSc.                       

  13.Macek Jan, prof. Ing., DrSc.                      

  14.Matas Jiří, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                     

  15.Navrátil Leoš, prof. MUDr., CSc.                  

  16.Páta Petr, prof. Mgr., Ph.D.                      

  17.Petráček Vojtěch, doc. RNDr., CSc.                

  18.Přibyl Ondřej, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                  

  19.Ripka Pavel, prof. Ing., CSc.                     

  20.Rosina Jozef, prof. MUDr., Ph.D., MBA             excused

  21.Roubík Karel, prof. Ing., Ph.D.                   

  22.Svítek Miroslav, prof. Dr. Ing., dr. h. c.        excused

  23.Škvor Zbyněk, prof. Ing., CSc.                    

  24.Španiel Miroslav, doc. Ing., CSc.                 

  25.Štekl Ivan, doc. Ing., CSc.                       

  26.Tvrdík Pavel, prof. Ing., CSc.                    

  27.Wald František, prof. Ing., CSc.                  excused

  28.Zavřel Zdeněk, prof. Ing. arch.                   
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **External members**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  1\. Dolejší Vít, prof. RNDr., Ph.D., DSc.               
  ------------------------------------------------------- ---------------
  2\. Drábová Dana, Ing., PhD., dr. h. c. mult.           excused

  3\. Gärtner Zdeněk, Ing.                                excused

  4\. Herle Ivo, Univ.-Prof. Dr.-Ing. habil.              

  5\. Janíček Ladislav, doc. Ing., Ph.D., MBA, L.L.M.     excused

  6\. Kasl Jan, Ing. arch.                                
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  7\. Kratochvíl Jan, prof. RNDr., CSc.             excused
  ------------------------------------------------- ---------------------
  8\. Kraus František J., Dr., Dr. Sc. Wiss Adjunkt 

  9\. Noskievič Petr, prof. Ing., CSc.              

  10.Penhaker Marek, prof. Ing., Ph.D.              

  11.Pospíšil Stanislav, prof. Ing., Ph.D., FEng.   

  12.Provazník Valentine, prof. Ing., Ph.D.         

  13.Řasa Jaroslav, Ing.                            excused

  14.Švadlenka Libor, doc. Ing., Ph.D.              

  15.Vitková Ľubica, prof. Ing. arch., Ph.D.        

  16.Vozňák Miroslav, prof. Ing., Ph.D.             

  17.Zemčík Pavel, prof. Dr. Ing.                   
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Extraordinary CoR members**

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Blažek Vladimír, prof. Dr. Ing., dr. h. c.      
  ----------------------------------------------- -----------------------
  Dvořáková Vladimíra prof. PhDr., CSc.           

  Hronová Stanislava prof. Ing., CSc.             

  Jelínková Helena prof. Ing., DrSc.              excused

  Kolísko Jiří prof. Ing., Ph.D.                  

  Kratochvíl Bohumil prof. RNDr., DSc.            

  Machan Jaroslav doc. Ing., CSc.                 

  Pospíšil Martin prof. Dr. Ing., Ph.D.           

  Šafařík Karel, prof. RNDr., CSc.                

  Valášek Michael prof. Ing., DrSc.               excused
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------

> **Rectors Emeritus**

+-------------------------------------------------+--------------------+
| Havlíček Václav, prof. Ing., CSc.               |                    |
+=================================================+====================+
| Witzany Jiří, prof. Ing., DrSc., dr. h. c.      | > excused          |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------------+
| Zuna Petr, prof. Ing., D.Eng. h. c., FEng.      |                    |
+-------------------------------------------------+--------------------+

> **[Program:]{.underline}**

1.  Review of the minutes of the CoR meeting of 21 February 2023

2.  Proposals for appointment as professor

3.  Proposals for the cancellation of study programmes

4.  Miscellaneous

The meeting of the SC was opened by the Rector doc. RNDr. Vojtěch
Petráček, CSc. The following persons were elected as Conveners for this
meeting: prof. Ing. Hana Kubátová, CSc.

Prof. Ing. Prof. Karel Roubík, Ph.D.

> **ad 1/ Review of the minutes of the CoR meeting of 21 February 2023**
>
> No comments were made on the minutes.
>
> **ad 2/ Proposals for appointment as professor**

The Vice-Rector, Prof. Zbyněk Škvor, presented the proposals for
appointment as professor to the CTU SC: (The supporting materials were
posted on INFOREK.) Faculty of Mechanical Engineering doc. Ing. Radim
Kocich, Ph.D.

Production and Materials Engineering

Doc. Ing. Radim Kocich, Ph.D. presented to the Scientific Council his
professional and scientific profile and plans of his further activities,
answered questions in the discussion.

Title of the professor\'s lecture:

\"Modern technologies of forming of non-ferrous meterials\". Result of
secret ballot,

32. present and eligible to vote, 32 positive, 0 negative, 0 invalid.

Radim Kocich, Ph.D. as professor in the field of Production and
Materials Engineering was approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.

> [Faculty of Civil Engineering]{.underline}
>
> doc. Ing. Bc. Radoslav Sovják, Ph.D.
>
> major: Theory of Building Structures and Materials

Doc. Ing. Bc. Radoslav Sovják, Ph.D. presented to the Scientific Council
his professional and scientific profile and plans of his further
activities, answered questions in the discussion.

Title of the professor\'s lecture:

\"Protective structures made of advanced fibre-reinforced cement
composites\". Result of secret ballot,

33. present and eligible to vote, 31 in favour, 2 in favour, 0 invalid.

Proposal for the appointment of Assoc. Bc. Radoslav Sovják, Ph.D. as
professor in the field of Theory of Building Structures and Materials
was approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.

> **ad 3/ Proposals for the abolition of study programmes**

Rector doc. Vojtěch Petráček informed the CTU Board of Directors about
the

proposals for the cancellation of study programmes:

-   P7108 History of Technology, study field: 7105V081 History of
    Technology,

-   P6232 Quantitative Methods in Economics, field of study: 6207V022
    Computer Science

> 6207V022 Economics and Finance.

(Background materials have been posted on INFOREK.)

Result of the vote by acclamation:

45 members of the CTU SC,

32 present and eligible to vote, 29 in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention.

> **Proposals for the abolition of study programmes**

-   **P7108 History of Technology, Field of Study: 7105V081 History of
    Technology,**

-   **P6232 Quantitative Methods in Economics, Field of Study: 6207V022
    Computational Economics and Finance**

> **were approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.**
>
> **ad 4/ Miscellaneous**

-   Proposal for the award of the Felber Medal I. degree - gold

> Vice-rector Škvor informed the CTU Council about the proposal for
> awarding the Felber Medal of the 1st degree - gold, information was
> supplemented by prof. Ing. Jiří Kolísko, Ph.D., Director of the
> Klokner Institute, who submitted the proposal.
>
> (Supporting materials were posted on INFOREK). Prof. Ing. Milan
> Holický, DrSc., Ph.D., PhD.
>
> Result of the secret ballot: 45 members of the CTU SC,
>
> 33 present and eligible to vote, 30 in favour, 2 in favour, 1 invalid,
> 0 proposal for another grade.
>
> The Scientific Council approved the proposal to award the Felber Medal
> of the 1st degree - gold to prof. Ing. Milan Holický, DrSc., Ph.D.,
> PhD.

-   Rector Petracek informed about the appropriate building of greater
    > potential for publication and citation of articles according to
    > the Code of Ethics. The ten most publishing authors will be
    > subjected to a more detailed evaluation. The results will be
    > defined in the course of 2023. CTU hopes to purify the publication
    > and citation system and thus improve this environment overall.
    > From the beginning of 2024, it is envisaged that a system of
    > certain awards will be developed and subsequently introduced into
    > the internal methodology.

-   On the recommendation of Prof. Ripka, a paper on MDPI will be
    > prepared for the next SC meeting. In terms of Methodology 17+, the
    > MDPI offers quality journals, classified in IF quartiles 1 and 2.
    > The MDPI publisher is attractive not only for Czech authors, but
    > the increase in article production is reflected worldwide.

> doc. RNDr. Vojtěch Petráček, CSc.
>
> Chairman of the Czech Technical University in Prague
