# CZECH TECHNICAL UNIVERSITY IN PRAGUE

> ***MINUTES***
>
> ***from the meeting of the CTU Scientific Council held on 17 October
> 2023 in the Large Meeting Room on the 10th floor of the CTU Rector\'s
> Office***
>
> **[Presence of CoR members:]{.underline} (according to the attendance
> list) Internal members**
>
> **External members**

+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| > 1\. Dolejší Vít, prof. RNDr., Ph.D., DSc.           |              |
+=======================================================+==============+
| > 2\. Drábová Dana, Ing., PhD., dr. h. c. mult.       |              |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| > 3\. Gärtner Zdeněk, Ing.                            | excused      |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| > 4\. Herle Ivo, Univ.-Prof. Dr.-Ing. habil.          |              |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| > 5\. Janíček Ladislav, doc. Ing., Ph.D., MBA, L.L.M. | excused      |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+
| > 6\. Kasl Jan, Ing. arch.                            | excused      |
+-------------------------------------------------------+--------------+

+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 7\. Kratochvíl Jan, prof. RNDr., CSc.           |                  |
+===================================================+==================+
| > 8\. Kraus František J., Dr., Dr. Sc. Wiss       |                  |
| > Adjunkt                                         |                  |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 9\. Noskievič Petr, prof. Ing., CSc.            |                  |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 10.Penhaker Marek, prof. Ing., Ph.D.            | excused          |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 11.Pospíšil Stanislav, prof. Ing., Ph.D., FEng. |                  |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 12.Provazník Valentine, prof. Ing., Ph.D.       |                  |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 13.Řasa Jaroslav, Ing.                          |                  |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 14.Švadlenka Libor, doc. Ing., Ph.D.            |                  |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 15.Vitková Ľubica, prof. Ing. arch., Ph.D.      | excused          |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 16.Vozňák Miroslav, prof. Ing., Ph.D.           |                  |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+
| > 17.Zemčík Pavel, prof. Dr. Ing.                 | excused          |
+---------------------------------------------------+------------------+

> **Extraordinary CoR members**

+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Blažek Vladimír, prof. Dr. Ing., dr. h. c.  |                      |
+===============================================+======================+
| > Dvořáková Vladimíra prof. PhDr., CSc.       |                      |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Hronová Stanislava prof. Ing., CSc.         |                      |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Jelínková Helena prof. Ing., DrSc.          |                      |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Kolísko Jiří prof. Ing., Ph.D.              | excused              |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Kratochvíl Bohumil prof. RNDr., DSc.        |                      |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Machan Jaroslav doc. Ing., CSc.             |                      |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Pospíšil Martin prof. Dr. Ing., Ph.D.       | excused              |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Šafařík Karel, prof. RNDr., CSc.            |                      |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+
| > Valášek Michael prof. Ing., DrSc.           | excused              |
+-----------------------------------------------+----------------------+

> **Rectors Emeritus**

+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| > Havlíček Václav, prof. Ing., CSc.            | excused             |
+================================================+=====================+
| > Witzany Jiří, prof. Ing., DrSc., dr. h. c.   | excused             |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
| > Zuna Petr, prof. Ing., D.Eng. h. c., FEng.   |                     |
+------------------------------------------------+---------------------+

> **[Program:]{.underline}**

1)  Review of the minutes of the CTU SC meeting of 23 May 2023

2)  Proposal for appointment as professor

3)  Accreditation of study programmes

4)  Report on the internal evaluation of the quality of educational,
    > creative and related activities of CTU for the years 2018 - 2023

5)  Miscellaneous

> The meeting of the SC was opened by the Rector doc. RNDr. Vojtěch
> Petráček, CSc. Prof. Ing. Jiří Matas, Ph.D.
>
> Ing. Jaroslav Řasa
>
> **ad 1/ Review of the minutes of the CoR meeting of 23 May 2023**
>
> No comments were made on the minutes.
>
> **ad 2/ Proposals for appointment as professor**
>
> The Vice-Rector, Prof. Zbyněk Škvor, presented the proposals for
> appointment as
>
> professor to the CTU Board:
>
> (The supporting materials were placed on INFOREK.)
>
> [Faculty of Electrical Engineering]{.underline} **doc. Ing. Miloslav
> Čapek, Ph.D. major: Radioelectronics**
>
> Doc. Ing. Miloslav Čapek, Ph.D. presented to the Scientific Council
> his professional and scientific profile and plans for his further
> activities, answered questions in the discussion.
>
> Title of the professor\'s lecture:
>
> **\"Optimal Inverse Design in Electromagnetism and Its Effective
> Implementation\". Result of secret ballot,**
>
> 33 present and eligible to vote, 32 in favour, 0 against, 0 invalid.
>
> **Proposal for the appointment of Assoc. Miloslav Čapek, Ph.D. as
> Professor of**
>
> **Radioelectronics was approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.**
>
> **ad 3/ Accreditation of study programmes**
>
> Prof. Škvor presented the draft concepts of study programmes to the
> CTU Council

-   Digitalization in Construction (FSv, MPS, CZ)

-   Sustainable Mobility (FS, BSP, CZ)

> and the proposals for substantial changes to the study programmes

-   Radiological Physics (FJFI, MPS, CZ)

-   Nuclear Decommissioning (FJFI, BSP, CZ)

-   Decommissioning of Nuclear Facilities (FJFI, BSP, EN) (Background
    materials have been posted on INFOREK.)

> After a wider discussion on the name of the study programme
> **Sustainable Mobility** (FS, BSP, CZ), the draft concept was
> withdrawn from the agenda of today\'s meeting with a vote to be taken
> at the next meeting.
>
> Result of voting by acclamation for other study programmes: 45 members
> of the CTU SC,33 present and eligible to vote, 33 in favour, 33 in
> favour, 0 in favour, 0 abstentions.
>
> **Draft study programme concept**

-   **Digitalisation in Construction (FSv, MPS, CZ)**

> **and proposals for substantial changes to the study programmes**

-   **Radiological Physics (FJFI, MPS, CZ)**

-   **Nuclear Decommissioning (FJFI, BSP, CZ)**

-   **Decommissioning of Nuclear Facilities (FJFI, BSP, EN) were
    approved by the Scientific Council of CTU.**

> **ad 4/ Report on the internal evaluation of the quality of the CTU\'s
> educational, creative and related activities for the years 2018 -
> 2022** (Background materials were posted on INFOREK).
>
> Rector doc. Vojtěch Petráček informed the CTU Council of the Report on
> the Internal Evaluation of the Quality of the Educational, Creative
> and Related Activities of CTU for the years 2018 - 2022. The Report
> was also commented by the Vice-Chairman of
>
> the Council of Ministers Prof. Hájek, who stated that it was adjusted
> to be compatible with other processes that took place within CTU. The
> Council of Ministers focused on the level of CTU in comparison with
> other universities. Reserves important for moving the school to a
> higher level (internationalization, publishing activity) were pointed
> out. Prof. Ripka made 11 more comments on the report, adding that the
> scientific part was fine, but the pedagogical part needed to be
> completed. Prof. Ripka will send the comments to the Vice-Chairman of
> RVH Prof. Hájek. It is necessary to consider which of them can be
> incorporated into the final report.
>
> The reasons for the long-term deterioration of the CTU\'s world and
> national ranking according to citation response were also discussed.
> Ing. Řasa strongly commented on the decline of CTU to 350th place in
> the QS ranking. He recommended the formation of a group to monitor the
> accuracy of all data, to consistently address weaknesses, analyze them
> and raise other serious issues. Prof. Hajek said that there are
> prominent personalities in the HEC, new people who have made a big
> difference in the analysis. The AGM is an advisory body to the school
> executive and the Rector needs to take the outputs through the Deans
> of Faculties and Directors of Institutes. Another suggestion could be
> internal marketing, of 1-2 people, to further disseminate this
> information on the critical situation of publication and citation data
> (see report page 12, Table 7) in a simple form. Scientists with a
> large citation response could also help. Another channel of
> communication could be an article published in the Prague Technique.
> It was recommended that at future CoR meetings, weaknesses and
> solution development should be mentioned and openly discussed.
>
> **The report on the internal evaluation of the quality of the CTU\'s
> educational, creative and related activities for the years 2018 - 2022
> was discussed with comments by the CTU Council.**
>
> **ad 5/ Miscellaneous**

1.  **Proposal for the appointment of a Professor Emeritus**

> Rector doc. Vojtěch Petráček presented the proposal for the
> appointment of an emeritus professor to the Board of Governors, which
> was supplemented by the Dean of the Faculty of Civil Engineering,
> prof. Jiří Máca (the supporting materials were placed on INFOREK).
>
> [Faculty of Civil Engineering]{.underline}
>
> **prof. Ing. Ivan Vaníček, DrSc.**
>
> **Theory of Building Structures and Materials**
>
> Result of secret ballot,
>
> 33 present and eligible to vote, 33 in favour, 33 in favour, 0 in
> favour, 0 in favour, 0 invalid**.**
>
> **Proposal to appoint Prof. Ing. Ivan Vaníček, DrSc. as Professor
> Emeritus of the**
>
> **CTU in Prague was approved by the Scientific Council of the CTU.**

2.  **Nomination of an AGM member**

> The AGM will have 18 members instead of the original 15. One member
> will be nominated by the CTU CoR. The Rector asked to reflect on the
> nominee, it will be the subject of the next CoR meeting.

3.  **Comment on the appointment of associate professors** (supporting
    materials were posted on INFOREK).

> Prof. Matas pointed out that one of the proposals to initiate the
> habilitation process was thought-provoking. The submissions on
> scientific or artistic qualifications, teaching competence and the
> functioning of habilitation committees should be given increased
> attention. Based on the broad discussion, the declining place in the
> QS World University Ranking needs to find simple solutions, but with a
> great impact. One of them should be the necessity of the candidate\'s
> foreign residence and the habilitation thesis would be conditioned by
> this. The same was confirmed by the foreign members of the VR (of
> course, taking into account the health situation of the candidates).
> The Rector described this extensive discussion as a brainstorming
> session with the result that for habilitations referred from faculties
> to the VR of the CTU from 1 January 2024, increased attention will be
> paid to whether the candidate has completed an appropriate foreign
> stay.
>
> This information will be conveyed by the Provost. Škvor through the
> meeting of the Vice-Deans of R&D. If in any case this requirement is
> not met, the candidate will be invited to appear before the CTU SC,
> where he/she will be given the opportunity to present the most
> significant results of his/her creative and teaching activities to the
> members of the SC in a short presentation. The CoR will then decide on
> the acceptance of the proposal. If the proposal for appointment as
> Associate Professor does not obtain the necessary majority, the
> proceedings will be terminated.

4.  **Nomination of members to the CR 2022 Proposal Evaluation
    > Committee**

> Vice-Chancellor Prof. Škvor asked the members of the CoR to nominate
> members for the Rector\'s Awards 2022 Proposal Evaluation Committee no
> later than 28 November 2023. The committee would meet after the
> November regular CoR meeting in the Vice-Chancellor\'s office and the
> best papers would be selected.

5.  Other dates of ordinary and formal CoR meetings

> 28.11. 23 Ceremonial at 9.30 Bethlehem Chapel, 14.00 ordinary session
>
> 12\. 12. ordinary session
>
> 23\. 01. 24 ordinary session
>
> 20\. 02 ordinary Session
>
> 19\. 03. ordinary session
>
> 16\. 04 ordinary Session
>
> 21\. 05. ordinary session
>
> 18\. 06 solemn at 9.30 a.m. Bethlehem Chapel, Ordinary at 2 p.m.
>
> doc. RNDr. Vojtěch Petráček, CSc.
>
> Chairman of the Czech Technical University in Prague
